---
title: "Insight: Gathering Perspective"
categories:
  - insight
tags:
  - insight
gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/gld3-parliament.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/gld3-parliament.jpg
    alt: "My International Relations class meeting with Kristian Jensen, the former Danish Minister of Foreign Affairs. He explained the Danish perspective on the Greenland issue and told us about the Danish political process where ministers within a coalition have specific roles in national affairs."
    title: "My International Relations class meeting with Kristian Jensen, the former Danish Minister of Foreign Affairs. He explained the Danish perspective on the Greenland issue and told us about the Danish political process where ministers within a coalition have specific roles in national affairs."
  - url: /assets/images/gld3-human-rights.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/gld3-human-rights.jpg
    alt: "My International Relations class meeting with Dr. Jens Modvig, the chair of the UN Committee Against Torture. Modvig explained to us how UN treaty bodies work and how they work with parties to investigate human rights abuses. He explained how Europeans have an interest in protecting human rights after the atrocities of World War II."
    title: "My International Relations class meeting with Dr. Jens Modvig, the chair of the UN Committee Against Torture. Modvig explained to us how UN treaty bodies work and how they work with parties to investigate human rights abuses. He explained how Europeans have an interest in protecting human rights after the atrocities of World War II."
  - url: /assets/images/gld3-institute.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/gld3-institute.jpg
    alt: "Fellow students and I at the CIEE institute, with the Kultorvet in the background"
    title: "Fellow students and I at the CIEE institute, with the Kultorvet in the background"
  - url: /assets/images/gld3-tallinn.jpg
    image_path: /assets/images/gld3-tallinn.jpg
    alt: "Our program trip to Tallinn, Estonia where we learned about Estonian history from the Vikings to its present-day independence after its occupation by the German Nazis and the Soviet Union. We learned about the complexity of the Russian issue which many Estonians are concerned about, joining NATO to preserve its independence. The country underwent significant digital modernization, becoming one of Europe's most technologically advanced countries."
    title: "Our program trip to Tallinn, Estonia where we learned about Estonian history from the Vikings to its present-day independence after its occupation by the German Nazis and the Soviet Union. We learned about the complexity of the Russian issue which many Estonians are concerned about, joining NATO to preserve its independence. The country underwent significant digital modernization, becoming one of Europe's most technologically advanced countries."
---
<p>Growing up I had exposure to two languages, Danish and English in the household. My dad was born and raised in Denmark and then moved here in the 1990s, so I speak with him in Danish. Being bilingual has played a significant role in my life and how I view the rest of the world. While mostly everyone in Denmark speaks English fluently, there is something special about knowing the local language and fully immersing yourself in the culture. Denmark is a relatively small country and few speak the language outside of its borders. This desire to be more immersed led me to study abroad in Spring 2020 in Copenhagen, Denmark. My program there was The Council on International Educational Exchange (CIEE) which hosts American students and has instruction in English so the credits can transfer back to the US standard as European credits work differently. Studying abroad exposed me to different institutions and cultures that I was not familiar with having lived in the United States my entire life. I learned about European governments and culture through my coursework there and at UofSC. These concepts such as European governance and cultural differences helped significantly in traveling around and enhanced the value of those travels. Studying abroad made me more open-minded and immersed me in our global society.</p>
<p>The feeling of moving to a new place is one that is both scary and exciting. We were housed in an upcoming area of Copenhagen called Sydhavn (&ldquo;South Harbor&rdquo;). Almost immediately I noticed the differences between American education norms and those there. For example, professors are not addressed by their last names but rather their first names. I took six classes over the course of the study abroad program but the most intriguing one was a class called Contemporary Controversies in International Relations which had a Danish-focused twist. The Danish perspective on world affairs is unique as it is a small country, but it also controls the foreign policy of Greenland. The course focused on the concepts of differences in European, particularly Danish, and American in foreign policy and the cultural implications behind it. As part of the class, we went on field trips to meet with politicians who related to the course. On one such visit, we went to the Danish Parliament where we met with Aaja Chemnitz Larsen who is a Greenlandic politician. We discussed with her the future of Greenland&rsquo;s relationship with Denmark which had recently been in the headlines when former President Trump offered to purchase the territory. We learned about the unique connection that Greenland has with Denmark. Greenland is within the Kingdom of Denmark but it has political independence and relies on the Danish Government for its diplomatic and military affairs. Greenland has struggled with development due to its low population and limited economic opportunities, creating a reliance on economic assistance from Denmark. This experience was valuable as I got to learn about the functions of the Danish government and its sensitive cultural relation to Greenland, a connection to my Danish heritage. We also examined European positions on issues such as Iran and how they differ from the more hardline approach of the United States, yet another difference in western policies. This course helped give me cultural contexts that were more similar to other European nations than the United States, broadening my worldview.</p>
[WTC INRE-4007-Midterm](https://edu.apf.cloud/gld/INRE-4007-Midterm.pdf){: .btn .btn--warning}
<p>This is a midterm from my Contemporary Controversies in International Relations course. We were asked to give European and American perspectives on issues such as Iran and Greenland. The differences in these perspectives were driven by policies that the Trump administration had taken that were at odds with European interests. The Danish perspective was that Greenland was not up for sale, while the US responded by cancelling a presidental state visit, with the Europeans backing Denmark. The US pulling out of the Iran deal led the Europeans to try and continue the agreement without their involvement, complicating relations.</p>
<p>Traveling through Europe right before the pandemic was stressful as countries had started to impose restrictions and it seemed like it was a race against time. Italy was the first country to lock down on the continent while the rest of Europe had the optimistic view that the virus was contained. However, before the borders closed and everyone went into lockdown I got to travel around through personal and educational trips. This was made possible by the European Union&rsquo;s Schengen which was discussed in my course as an example of European integration through the visa-free movement of people. This European integration has led to countries being more accessible and culturally linked together through initiatives such as environmental ones. In Denmark, environmentalism plays a large role in foreign policy and its domestic initiatives. For example, Copenhagen has bike lanes and highways that allow commuters to ride around and use public transportation alongside it. This contrasts with a country like the United States which has cheaper gas and limited biking opportunities in most cities, prioritizing less environmentalism. This was also seen in my trip to Amsterdam where water management through barriers and other flood control plays a significant role in the culture there. On our visit to Estonia, we learned about the struggles of Soviet occupation and how that influences their current foreign policy with regard to Russia. This contrasted with my trip to Austria which is known for its neutrality, abstaining from NATO. These differences between countries within the European Union made it clear to me that national perspectives can be quite different, which was discussed in my International Relations course. Understanding these kinds of European perspectives which favor some policies such as the environment in its world outlook was interesting and closely aligned with our coursework studying European involvement in foreign relations. Understanding these European connections would also play a role in some of my later coursework in Politics and Governments of Europe which focused on European politics and government systems. In this course, we discussed the Green party and the influence that they have on such environmental programs and the overall conversation.&nbsp;</p>
{% include gallery caption="Photos from my study abroad, captions are on the photos." %}
[BTC Study Abroad Map](https://edu.apf.cloud/gld/study-abroad){: .btn .btn--info}
<p>This is a travel map I made using the JavaScript library leaflet. It shows the places I traveled to during my abroad experience. As discussed above, I saw different views regarding foreign relations and the cultures in each country.</p>
<p>Studying and traveling in Europe has expanded my horizons as to who I am as a person. Being able to connect with my Danish heritage and see how problems have been solved differently has made me think outside of the everyday box. My enhanced knowledge about Europeans and their everyday lives will help me make considerations about the technologies I develop in my professional career. Even with the disruption that COVID-19 caused to my experiences, I am able to see the differences in how countries are resolving their issues. I have recognized that the different ways people live their lives influence their solution and their foreign policy decisions. The concept of European perspectives and considerations such as our focus on environmentalism learned in my classes enhanced my travels as I could draw on the historical and present realities there to expand my own understanding. &nbsp;In the future, I want to learn more about the countries I am traveling to beforehand to be able to appreciate those places more, to further my connection between the course concepts I studied there and my travels.&nbsp;</p>