---
title: "Biography"
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - biography
---
<p>My name is Adam Frederiksen, I am a Senior at the University of South Carolina studying Computer Science and Political Science with a minor in Business Administration graduating in May 2022. I have always had a passion for these fields, taking computer science classes and participating in Model United Nations conferences in high school.</p>
<p>Originally from Connecticut, I came to the University of South Carolina to get a different experience from that in the northeast. I recall applying to colleges and selecting the 8+ hours away option in the college search database, I certainly got that coming here. Applying to college was a fairly independent and unbinding process for me as my mom attended community college only for a semester and my dad immigrated from Denmark. As a first-generation I found myself trying to be as ambitious as possible with the idea that my degree would give me opportunities that my parents did not have. I joined student organizations such as the Association for Computing and Machinery and the Cyber Security clubs.</p>
<p>I have also been involved in the College of Engineering and Computing&rsquo;s peer mentor program where I have mentored three freshmen, providing them advice and resources to succeed in their early college experience. I told students my experiences and tips I &nbsp;wish I had known when I had first started. I was also a teaching assistant for CSCE 145 - Algorithmic Design I where I had a class of 23 students. I was responsible for reviewing and assisting the student&apos;s lab work and creating lessons on concepts from class. By explaining each lab assignment to the various students who each learned differently, I became a better programmer by adapting my teaching styles.<br><br></p>
<p>During my time here at UofSC, I have had two internships that gave me a knowledgeable experience. During the summer before my Sophomore year worked at Atlas Air Inc. one of the world&rsquo;s largest cargo airlines as an information technology compliance intern. There, I worked with the compliance office and their various enterprise business units to help conduct reviews of application and account security procedures. Working there I gained knowledge about managing a large corporation&rsquo;s network and how to manage hundreds of applications. I also worked on a project about corporate values and perspectives. During the summer before my senior year, I worked as a Software Engineering intern at Publicis Sapient, a company that specializes in Digitial Business Transformation. I worked on an internship challenge with students from various universities to build a grocery pickup application concept. I gained valuable mentorship from senior engineering staff and executives on how to build these types of applications. I also worked on a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) project that advocated recycling and other environmentally friendly habits. I was co-captain of the CSR project, leading the technical development of the blog platform that was used to share more information.</p>
<p>I have also been working as a student researcher for the University of South Carolina&rsquo;s Division of Information Technology&rsquo;s Research Computing group. I started by revamping the websites that are used by researchers who are getting started by adding scripts and updating information. I worked with high-performance computing servers to benchmark image classification on the university&rsquo;s Hyperion server cluster. I also worked on a project for the Moving Image Research Collection which will serve as a repository for Marine Corp film archives.</p>
<p>During the spring of my sophomore year, I studied abroad in Copenhagen, Denmark. While it was cut short due to COVID-19, I was able to live abroad for nearly three months. I served on the study abroad program&rsquo;s student council as secretary, allowing me to improve the program. Being able to travel around allowed me to consider different ways of life and to enjoy the beautiful European cities.</p>
<p>All of these experiences have given me the confidence and knowledge to be ready for the professional world when I graduate. I believe that I have satisfied the Professional and Civic Engagement pathway through my various jobs and community involvement. My ePortfolio details my experiences and how they connect with my education here at the University of South Carolina. This ePortfolio summarizes my college experience and gives an idea of where I am heading.</p>